Kevin Love: I'm Kevin Love and
welcome to West Wing Week.
Narrator: Welcome to
the West Wing week,
your guide to everything
that's happening
at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
This week, the president
convened summits on global
public health and on
the BRAIN Initiative,
hosted the prime ministers
of India and Israel,
welcomed the 2013 MLS Champions
Sporting Kansas City to the
White House, and traveled
to Chicago to speak
on the resurgence of
the American economy.
It's September 26th
to October 2nd, or --
The President: -- if
the body is strong --
The Narrator: -- if
the body is strong.
The President: -- if
communities are strong,
if nations are strong, then
their immune systems are
a little bit stronger.
Narrator: On Friday, the
president emphasized the need
for all nations to prioritize
public health in light
of the Ebola epidemic
in West Africa.
The President: We have to change
out mindsets and start thinking
about biological threats as
the security threats that they
are, in addition to being
humanitarian threats
and economic threats.
We have to bring the same
level of commitment and focus
to these challenges as we
do when meeting around
more traditional
security issues.
Narrator: Later, the president
sat down with Steve Croft
of 60 Minutes, and spoke on
America's role as the world's
indispensable nation.
The President: -- when trouble
comes up anywhere in the world,
they don't call Beijing, they
don't call Moscow, they call us.
That's how we role.
Narrator: Saturday night,
the president and first lady
donned their formal wear
for the 44th Annual
Congressional Black
Caucus Foundation's
Phoenix Award
Dinner.
The President: Cynicism is very
popular in America sometimes.
It's propagated in
the media.
But cynicism didn't put
anybody on the moon.
Cynicism didn't pass
the Voting Rights Act.
Hope is what packed buses
full of freedom riders.
Hope is what led
thousands of black folks
and white folks to march
from Selma to Montgomery.
Hope is what got John Lewis off
his back after being beaten
within an inch of his life,
and chose to keep on going.
Cynicism is a choice, but
hope is a better choice.
(applause)
Narrator: On Tuesday, the
president invited Prime Minister
Narendra Modi of India to
the White House for
their first summit.
Then they ventured out together
on a lovely fall Tuesday to make
a pilgrimage to one of the
newest landmarks in our
nation's capital: the memorial
to Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr. They pledged to push the
bilateral relationship to new
levels, resolve issues blocking
implementation of a civil
nuclear deal and cooperate
in counterterrorism.
Both leaders committed to a new
mantra for their relationship:
Chalein Saath Saath,
forward together we go.
In the afternoon, the White
House announced new investments
in the BRAIN Initiative, a
critical research effort
that aims to advance our
understanding of the human mind,
and our ability
to treat, prevent,
and cure brain disorders.
Wednesday, the president met
with Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu
in the Oval Office.
Of course there was much
on the docket to discuss,
including relations
with the Palestinians
and efforts to combat ISIL.
Later, the
president welcomed
the 2013 MLS Champions
Sporting Kansas City.
The President: The
Royals advancing,
blew out the Patriots
the other day --
(laughter)
The President: -- so
overall, you -- someone's
going onto Kansas City.
You guys got -- you
got it all started.
Narrator: On Thursday, the
president returned to his roots:
his hometown of Chicago,
to speak to an assembly of
students, staff and faculty at
Northwestern's Kellogg School
of Management, focusing on what
has always fueled America's
leadership, and that's
America's economic greatness.
He took a step back from the
rush of current events to
explain what we have done
to recover from the great
recession, and what we need to
do to ensure that more middle
class families feel that
progress in their own lives.
The President: So here's the
bottom line: for all the work
that remains, for all the
citizens that we still need
to reach, what I want people
to know is that there
are some really good things
happening in America.
That's because this new
foundation is now in place.
New investments in energy and
technology is to create new jobs
and new industries; new
investments and education that
will make our workforce more
skilled and competitive;
new reforms to health care that
cut costs for families
and businesses; new reforms
to our federal budget that
will promote smart investments
and a stronger economy for
future generation; new rules
for our financial system
to protect consumers and
prevent the kinds of crises
that we endured from
happening again.
Narrator: Well, folks,
you've gone and done it.
You've spent a few
minute with us online.
We love it, keep doing it.
Stay engaged with us, and
thanks again for checking
out this edition of
your West Wing Week.
The President: In one black tie,
I would have worn my tan suit.
(applause)
The President: I thought
it would look good.
(laughter)